In this video we're going to be laying out the foundation for our application namely bootstrapping it
for doing that of course.
I'm going to create a new project for our application I'll hit next
and the name of our project is going to be spring and we see.
And let's also change the artifact to match it.
And the name of our project is also going to be spring and we see.
All right let's click next.
Within the dependencies what we're going to need is of course we need the web dependency.
And after that we're going to be using timely to develop our interface so we're going to select a time
we've And from the sequel to app we're of course going to use the JPA and to.
These are all the basic dependencies that we need right now.
And of course we're also going to be adding a couple of more dependencies in the next video.
So for now I'm going to hit next and everything is ready for me so I'll hit finish to create our project.
Our project is created.
And let's go to our navigation and in our profile we have all of dependencies that we need for our application
right now.
So bootstrap our application to lay out the foundation I'm going to be creating the model and the product
loader for our application so it can Strout itself it can insert the data into a database.
Before even I need to do anything.
And then we can work our interface working our controllers with the application with our embassy application.
So to do that I'll go to my source for victory and I'll start by creating our model.
So I'll say I want a new package and it's going to be the model in the model package.
I'm going to be creating our product model and of course the product is going to be our entity.
And in this product object product entity we're going to be having an ID private screening ID.
And of course this product is going to have a name
and we also have the description
we have type
we have category
and we have the price as double.
All right let's create our getters and setters and I'll select all the properties that I have and hit
OK.
This also has an empty constructor for our application for our model and I'll select none go.
So there are things that I should do is annotate my ID as ID so I'll do that and I'll say generated
Wehle.
And within the generated value I'm going to provide a generator.
But before that I'm going to say that generation type is automatic and the generator that I'm going
to use is system dash you ID.
Let's get the actual generator and the generator is going to be coming from a generic generator.
And and this generator I'm going to be giving it the name that I provided within the generated value
annotation.
It's going to be system dash you ID and of course the strategy is going to be you I.D. too.
All right we have our entity and actually the model so let's create our repository for this model for
this entity.
For that I'm going to create our repository package
and this repository package I'm going to create our product repository interface
and select interface from dropdown.
Here we go.
So what we should do now we should extend the J-P repository and we should provide the product model
to it and then we also need to say that we're going to be using string as ID.
And lastly we should annotate this class as the repository annotation.
Here we go.
We have our repository ready to be working with the last thing we're going to do before we move on to
creating our index page and the actual Estill Mel.
I'm going to be creating a data lower class in the previous videos.
We were just creating our data within the application class but this time I'm going to be creating a
new package within that package.
I'm going to be creating a new component with that component.
Our data is going to be loaded whenever we run our application.
So to do that I'm going to be creating a new package and that package is going to be boot with this
boot package.
I will have my day down whenever I run our application.
So in this package I'm going to create a new class and give it the name as data loader as I've said
before in this data loader class.
We're going to be connecting to our repository and have some data created before we interact with our
application.
So if we're doing that and before everything else I should annotate this class as a component so that
spring component scan finds it and creates it as a mean.
And after that what I'm going to do is I'm going to be implementing the command line runner.
So let's do that now and I'll say implements command line runner.
And of course as you can remember from the previous videos we should be overriding the run method of
the command line runner.
So let's do that now.
And I just created our own method so to actually make use of our repository.
Let's create a instance variable for our repository and other worrit so to do that.
Say private product repository and repository and then I'm going to create these self-injection for
at I'll create a center for repository and then simply auto wire it.
Here we go.
Knowing the run method of our command line runner we're going to be creating two products basically.
Now let's do that now.
I'll say product and product one is a new product and that product is going to be named as milky bar
and the description for that product is going to be
milky bar where hot chocolate and hazelnut.
I'm going to set the type of this product as Candie's
and for a category of this product I'm going to provide bars and for the price let's say we want this
to be one that 99.
All right we have our first product.
So let's say to our repository for do debt to do that.
I'm going to call our product repository the same method and simply give it the product one.
Here we go.
A Let's move on to creating our second product I'll say product product to add a new product.
The second product is going to be named as almond bar
and description for the second product is going to be
almond bar with
chocolate and honey
and the type of the second product is also going to be candies.
And let's say that
for a category I'm going to be providing the first category again and for the price of this second product
I'm going to say to the 99 Let's save the second product to our repository for that are called Product
repositories same method and simply provide the second product.
Here we go.
Our application is almost ready to start up.
But before we do anything we should check out our application properties and set some variables there.
So let's open up our application up properties in there.
Let's first say we want our application to be running on port 80 89 different from the other projects
that were built.
And after that I'm going to provide our our data source properties.
So I'll start with spring dot datasource dot driver class name is going to be H2 and after that I'm
going to say spring that datasource dot you are out is going to be shady b c H2.
And after that I'm going to say it's going to be a file store and then I'll provide the database name
as products and we see database right.
And we are also going to set the username and password
datasource thought user name is going to be say and then spring dot datasource
dot password is going to be empty.
And let's also enable our age to cancel and set the path.
So I'll say spring that a student council enabled is through and then spring that a student council
that path is going to be slash H-2 and then we're also going to set the J-P sequel outlook for that
I'll provide spring that JP That shows sequel to true.
All right.
Our application is ready to run now and we can we should expect to have our data stored into our database.
So let's run our application and see what's going to happen.
Our application is starting up now.
And as you can see within these statements our data is brought into our H-2 database.
Let's just quickly verify the data if it actually store into our database.
So for that I'm going to fire up the Firefox and then go to localhost ADHD 9 and do
our database.
This time is going to be product and we see database.
And let's quickly we're that in our application of properties that was actually products and we see
database so let's copy that and switch back to Firefox and paste it right here.
Here we go and let's go back to our database in our database if we query our product table.
We have two records just as we expected.
So let's switch back to our ID.
And as you can see here we have bootstrapped our application and ready to build on top of it with spring
and we see and other great technologies such as a DML CSX and bootstrap.
So to start off with creating our index page I'll be seeing you in the next video.